Bounties 0077 js samples 2 Create-a-Wallet (#1734)
XRPLF/xrpl-dev-portal: content/tutorials/build-apps/build-a-desktop-wallet-in-javascript.md

"Hello World" like example with minimal functionality, step-by-step we will add more and more complex features. At the 
end you will have a rough understanding  

As JavaScript is a programming language that originated in the web browser ecosystem, it's not natively 
supporting the creation of desktop applications. We have to pick a frameworks that enable us to write 
desktop applications with JavaScript. For this tutorial we will use the [Electron Framework](https://www.electronjs.org/), as it is well 
established, documented and will get us up and running without having to care for dependencies and stuff that would make 
us divert too much from the goals of this tutorial.

## Goals

At the end of this tutorial, you will have built a JavaScript Wallet application that looks something like this:

![Desktop wallet screenshot](img/javascript-wallet-preview.png)

The look and feel of the user interface should be roughly the same regardless of operating system, as the Electron Framework allows us to write 
cross-platform applications that are styled with HTML and CSS just like a web-based application.

The application we are going to build here will be capable of the following:

> - Shows updates to the XRP Ledger in real-time.
> - Can view any XRP Ledger account's activity "read-only" including showing how much XRP was delivered by each transaction.
> - Shows how much XRP is set aside for the account's [reserve requirement](reserves.html).
> - Can send [direct XRP payments](direct-xrp-payments.html), and provides feedback about the intended destination address, including:
>     - Whether the intended destination already exists in the XRP Ledger, or the payment would have to fund its creation.
>     - If the address doesn't want to receive XRP ([`DisallowXRP` flag](become-an-xrp-ledger-gateway.html#disallow-xrp) enabled).
>     - If the address has a [verified domain name](https://xrpl.org/xrp-ledger-toml.html#account-verification) associated with it.

Reviewer: Standardizing the tense of each bullet to match the sentence leading up to it.
```suggestion
- Showing updates to the XRP Ledger in real-time.
- Viewing any XRP Ledger account's activity "read-only" including showing how much XRP was delivered by each transaction.
- Showing how much XRP is set aside for the account's [reserve requirement](reserves.html).
- Sending [direct XRP payments](direct-xrp-payments.html), and providing feedback about the intended destination address, including:
    - Whether the intended destination already exists in the XRP Ledger, or the payment would have to fund its creation.
    - If the address doesn't want to receive XRP ([`DisallowXRP` flag](become-an-xrp-ledger-gateway.html#disallow-xrp) enabled).
    - If the address has a [verified domain name](https://xrpl.org/xrp-ledger-toml.html#account-verification) associated with it.
```

> The application in this tutorial _doesn't_ have the ability to send or trade [tokens](issued-currencies.html) or 
> use other [payment types](payment-types.html) like Escrow or Payment Channels. However, it provides a foundation 
> that you can implement those and other features on top of.

Reviewer: Adding links to terms with their own docs page
```suggestion
The application in this tutorial _doesn't_ have the ability to send or trade [tokens](issued-currencies.html) or 
use other [payment types](payment-types.html) like [Escrow](https://xrpl.org/escrow.html) or [Payment Channels](https://xrpl.org/payment-channels.html). However, it provides a foundation 
that you can implement those and other features on top of.
```

and asynchronous (async) code in JavaScript.

## Steps

### 1. Hello XRP Ledger

**Full code for this step:** [`1_hello.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/1_hello.js).

Our first step is to write a "Hello World" like application, that interacts on a very basic level with the XRP Ledger 
and displays some high-level information about the current ledger state on the screen. Nothing too fancy so far, as we 
will take care of styling and GUI related coding in a later step:

![Screenshot: Step 1, hello world equivalent](img/javascript-wallet-1.png)

In the package.json file you can find prepared commands to run our application according to the steps comprising the 
structure of this tutorial. To get the application running at this early stage of development, run the following command: 

```console
npm run hello
```

The source code of this step is as follows, and we will use this lightweight example to get privy on how the data flow 
in electron works: 

{{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/1_hello.js", language="js") }}

> The main parts are a helper function that executes a ledger request and the main function that creates the application 
> window, calls our helper function and distributes its contents by broadcasting an event that will get picked up by the 
> frontend.

Reviewer: Splitting a long sentence into simpler components
```suggestion
The main parts are a helper function that executes a ledger request and the main function that creates the application 
window. The main function then calls our helper function and distributes its contents by broadcasting an event that will get picked up by the frontend.
```

and the frontend when we think in terms of client-server applications. It works as follows:

1. Create a function that enables the frontend to subscribe to backend events (in 1_preload.js)
2. Make the function available by preloading it (webPreferences.preload during window creation)
3. Use that function in the frontend (e.g. 1_renderer.js, loaded in 1_hello.html) to attach a callback that handles frontend updates when the event is dispatched
4. Dispatch the event from the backend (e.g. appWindow.webContents.send('update-ledger-index', value))

### 2.A. Show Ledger Updates by Polling

**Full code for this step:** [`2_async-poll.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/2_async-poll.js).

Our "Hello Ledger" application from Step 1. so far only shows the latest validated ledger sequence at the time when we 
opened it. So let's take things up a notch and add some dashboard like functionality where our wallet app will keep in 
sync with the ledger and display the latest specs and stats like a clock that is keeping track on time:

![Screenshot: Step 2, show ledger updates](img/javascript-wallet-2.png)

> 

Reviewer: Adding in the new changes we're making related to the XRPL (Provided as an example of what you could do - I think context like this would be important to add to each section from here on out)

The screenshot of what the completed step looks like is very helpful for understanding what we're accomplishing :)
```suggestion

To accomplish this, we'll need to subscribe to the ledger using this snippet of code: 

<Code snippet>

When you subscribe to the `ledger` stream, anytime there is a new validated ledger your code will be updated...

```

Reviewer: Ah I got a bit confused here - I think that context is still important, but I didn't realize that 2A/2B were replacements for each other. My recommendation would be to start with subscriptions and include the polling option as a small "Alternatively, you can also set this up using polling instead of subscriptions like this: <Code>" in order to keep a straightforward flow during the tutorial. 

(I don't know how important polling is as a technique relative to subscription - I think just showing one gets the message across without confusing people but open to hearing if you think otherwise)

To get the application running at this stage of development, run the following command:

```console
npm run async-poll
```

### 2.B. Show Ledger Updates by Using Subscriptions

**Full code for this step:** [`2_async-subscribe.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/2_async-subscribe.js).

> In Step 2.a we kept  our application on the heartbeat of the XRPL by periodically polling it for updates. In JavaScript,

Reviewer: nit: 
```suggestion
In Step 2.A we kept  our application on the heartbeat of the XRPL by periodically polling it for updates. In JavaScript,
```

our client is connecting to the XRPL via [WebSockets](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WebSocket). Our client has a 
permanent bidirectional connection to the XRPL, which allows us to subscribe to events that the server sends out. This 
saves resources on the server, which now only sends out data we explicitly asked for when a change happens, as well as 
the client which does not have to sort through incoming data for relevant changes. This also reduces the complexity of the 
application and saves us a couple of lines of code.

To get the application running at this stage of development, run the following command:

```console
npm run async-subscribe
```

### 3. Display an Account

**Full code for this step:** [`3_account.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/3_account.js).

> Now that we have a  permanent connection to the XRPL and some code to bring the delivered data to life on our 
> screen, it's time to add some "wallet" functionality by managing am individual account. For this step, we will momentarily 
> hardcode the address of the account, and save the complexities of key handling for later. The application, after finishing 
> this step should look like this:

Reviewer: Fixing typos and simplifying sentence structure
```suggestion
Now that we have a permanent connection to the XRPL and some code to bring the delivered data to life on our 
screen, it's time to add some "wallet" functionality by managing an individual account. 

For this step, we will momentarily 
hardcode the address of the account, and save the complexities of key handling for later. After finishing 
this step the application should look like this:
```

![Screenshot: Step 3, show account information](img/javascript-wallet-3.png)

To get the application running at this stage of development, run the following command:

```console
npm run account
```

### 4. Show Account's Transactions

**Full code for this step:** [`4_tx-history.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/4_tx-history.js).

At this point, your wallet shows the account's balance getting updated, but doesn't give you any clue about how this state
came about, namely the actual transactions that caused the updates. So, our next step is to display the account's 

> transaction history and to keep it up to date:

Reviewer: Tying it back to the earlier explanation of subscriptions.
```suggestion
up to date transaction history using subscriptions once again:
```

> To get the application running at this stage of development, run the following command:
> 
> ![Screenshot: Step 4, show transaction history](img/javascript-wallet-4.png)

Reviewer: Swapping screenshot to be above the command to run the code
```suggestion
![Screenshot: Step 4, show transaction history](img/javascript-wallet-4.png)

To get the application running at this stage of development, run the following command:
```

```console
npm run tx-history
```

### 5. Send XRP

**Full code for this step:** [`5_send-xrp.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/2_send-xrp.js).

Up until now we have enabled our app to query and display data from the XRPL. Now it's time to actively participate in
the ledger by enabling out application to send transactions. For now, you can stick to sending direct XRP payments 
because there are more complexities involved in sending issued tokens. 

But before that, it is time to take that wallflowery appearance of our application and give it a more usable and 

> nicer looking UI. 

Reviewer: We're doing both in the first step, maybe this should be split into two steps considering they're both significant changes to the app? 

Or maybe instead of saying `before that` we should say "In addition to that, we'll improve the UI in this step so it's easier to understand what's going on.

Author: It's a separate step now

To get the application running at this stage of development, run the following command:

```console
npm run send-xrp
```

### 6. Domain Verification and Polish

**Full code for this step:** [`6_domain-verification.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/3_domain-verification.js).

One of the biggest shortcomings of the wallet app from the previous step is that it doesn't provide a lot of 
protections or feedback for users to save them from human error and scams. These sorts of protections are extra 
important when dealing with the cryptocurrency space, because decentralized systems like the XRP Ledger don't 
have an admin or support team you can ask to cancel or refund a payment if you made a mistake such as sending it to 
the wrong address. This step shows how to add some checks on destination addresses to warn the user before sending.

One type of check you can make is to verify the domain name associated with an XRP Ledger address; this is called
[account domain verification](xrp-ledger-toml.html#account-verification). When an account's domain is verified, 
you could show it like this:

> TBD

Reviewer: Just marking so one of the TBD shows up while you're reviewing comments - I know you said you would add detail once reviewed.

---
parent: build-apps.html
targets:
  - en
  - ja # TODO: translate this page
blurb: Build a graphical desktop wallet for the XRPL using JavaScript.
---
# Build a Desktop Wallet in JavaScript
<!-- STYLE_OVERRIDE: wallet -->

This tutorial demonstrates how to build a desktop wallet for the XRP Ledger using the JavaScript programming language, 
the Electron Framework and various libraries. This application can be used as a starting point for building a more 
complex and powerful application, as a reference point for building comparable apps, or as a learning experience to 
better understand how to integrate XRP Ledger functionality into a larger project.

## Prerequisites

To complete this tutorial, you should meet the following requirements:

> - You have node.js 14+ installed on your machine. You can get the latest version [here](https://nodejs.org/en/).

Reviewer 2: As a best practice, use informative link text rather than "here". I suggest simplifying the line as follows:

```suggestion
- You have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) 14+ installed.
```

Author: Done

- You are somewhat familiar with modern JavaScript programming and have completed the [Get Started Using JavaScript tutorial](get-started-using-javascript.html).

> - You have at least some rough understanding of what the XRP Ledger, it's capabilities and of cryptocurrency in general. Ideally you have completed the [Basic XRPL guide](https://learn.xrpl.org/)

Reviewer 2: Fix grammar/typos (and use an Oxford comma 😉):

```suggestion
- You have at least some rough understanding of the XRP Ledger, its capabilities, and of cryptocurrency in general. Ideally you have completed the [Basic XRPL guide](https://learn.xrpl.org/)
```

Author: Done

### Source Code

You can find the complete source code for all of this tutorial's examples in the [code samples section of this website's repository]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/).

### Preparing the development machine and installing dependencies

The basic building block for running JavaScript in a non-browser environment, also called headless JavaScript, we need
to have node.js installed on the development machine.

This tutorial depends on various node.js libraries. To install those dependencies and get the project up and running, in the build-a-wallet-with-javascript/js
folder, run the following command to install the required modules:

```console
npm install

> ```

Reviewer 2: I think it makes more sense to move the installation of dependencies (other than Node itself) under the "Steps" section. And rather than having the user clone the xrpl-dev-portal repo and work from there, I think it would make sense to tell them to make a new project directory somewhere, then show the `package.json` and tell them to copy its contents in before running `npm install`.

Author: Done

This installs the Electron Framework, the xrpl.js client library and a couple of helpers we are going to need for our
application to work.

## Rationale

This tutorial takes you through the process of creating a XRP Wallet application from scratch. Starting with a simple,
"Hello World" like example with minimal functionality, step-by-step we will add more and more complex features. At the 

> end you will have a rough understanding  

Reviewer 2: Incomplete sentence; you can probably just remove it.

Author: Done

As JavaScript is a programming language that originated in the web browser ecosystem, it's not natively 
supporting the creation of desktop applications. We have to pick a frameworks that enable us to write 
desktop applications with JavaScript. For this tutorial we will use the [Electron Framework](https://www.electronjs.org/), as it is well 
established, documented and will get us up and running without having to care for dependencies and stuff that would make 
us divert too much from the goals of this tutorial.

## Goals

At the end of this tutorial, you will have built a JavaScript Wallet application that looks something like this:

> ![Desktop wallet screenshot](img/javascript-wallet-preview.png)

Reviewer 2: This image appears to be missing from the PR?

Author: Yes, that was still in the local output folder after renaming the original input file. Done.

- Showing how much XRP is set aside for the account's [reserve requirement](reserves.html).
- Sending [direct XRP payments](direct-xrp-payments.html), and providing feedback about the intended destination address, including:
    - Whether the intended destination already exists in the XRP Ledger, or the payment would have to fund its creation.
    - If the address doesn't want to receive XRP ([`DisallowXRP` flag](become-an-xrp-ledger-gateway.html#disallow-xrp) enabled).
    - If the address has a [verified domain name](https://xrpl.org/xrp-ledger-toml.html#account-verification) associated with it.

The application in this tutorial _doesn't_ have the ability to send or trade [tokens](issued-currencies.html) or 
use other [payment types](payment-types.html) like [Escrow](https://xrpl.org/escrow.html) or [Payment Channels](https://xrpl.org/payment-channels.html). However, it provides a foundation 
that you can implement those and other features on top of.

In addition to the above features, you'll also learn a bit about Events, IPC (inter-process-communication) 
and asynchronous (async) code in JavaScript.

## Steps

### 1. Hello XRP Ledger

> **Full code for this step:** [`1_hello.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/1_hello.js).

Reviewer 2: It's a bit misleading to call this the "full code" for this step since you also need some files in the `view/` folder (`1_hello.html`, `1_preload.js`, and `1_renderer.js`).

Author: Done

Our first step is to write a "Hello World" like application, that interacts on a very basic level with the XRP Ledger 
and displays some high-level information about the current ledger state on the screen. Nothing too fancy so far, as we 
will take care of styling and GUI related coding in a later step:

![Screenshot: Step 1, hello world equivalent](img/javascript-wallet-1.png)

In the package.json file you can find prepared commands to run our application according to the steps comprising the 
structure of this tutorial. To get the application running at this early stage of development, run the following command: 

```console

> npm run hello

Reviewer 2: I think it makes sense to put this command _after_ the code sections, so users who are following along by copy-pasting code segments (rather than cloning the repo) get the steps in the right order.

Author: I will leave that open for now and take care of this later

```

The source code of this step is as follows, and we will use this lightweight example to get privy on how the data flow 
in electron works: 

{{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/1_hello.js", language="js") }}

The main parts are a helper function that executes a ledger request and the main function that creates the application 
window. The main function then calls our helper function and distributes its contents by broadcasting an event that will get picked up by the frontend.

We will use this example to study how to do Inter Process Communication (IPC) in Electron. For reasons of due diligence it 

> has to be mentioned that JavaScript has no real Processes / Threading because follows event-driven paradigm. Nonetheless 

Reviewer 2: Missing word ("because follows") and I don't think this is exactly the right usage of the phrase "due diligence". Suggested rephrase:

```suggestion
This example shows how to do Inter Process Communication (IPC) in Electron. Technically, JavaScript has no true parallel processes or threading, because it follows a single-threaded event-driven paradigm. Nonetheless, 
```

Author: Done

> Electron provides us with two IPC modules called ipcMain and ipcRenderer. We can roughly equate those to the backend

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Electron provides us with two IPC modules called `ipcMain` and `ipcRenderer`. We can roughly equate those to the backend
```

Author: Done

and the frontend when we think in terms of client-server applications. It works as follows:

> 1. Create a function that enables the frontend to subscribe to backend events (in 1_preload.js)

Reviewer 2: In addition to putting the filename in code font, it's a good practice to note that it's in a separate subfolder

```suggestion
1. Create a function that enables the frontend to subscribe to backend events (in `view/1_preload.js`)
```

Author: Done

2. Make the function available by preloading it (webPreferences.preload during window creation)

> 3. Use that function in the frontend (e.g. 1_renderer.js, loaded in 1_hello.html) to attach a callback that handles frontend updates when the event is dispatched

Reviewer 2: It would be helpful if you included the code samples for these files in the tutorial here.

Author: Done

4. Dispatch the event from the backend (e.g. appWindow.webContents.send('update-ledger-index', value))

### 2.A. Show Ledger Updates by Polling

**Full code for this step:** [`2_async-poll.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/2_async-poll.js).

Our "Hello Ledger" application from Step 1. so far only shows the latest validated ledger sequence at the time when we 
opened it. So let's take things up a notch and add some dashboard like functionality where our wallet app will keep in 
sync with the ledger and display the latest specs and stats like a clock that is keeping track on time:

![Screenshot: Step 2, show ledger updates](img/javascript-wallet-2.png)

To accomplish this, we'll need to subscribe to the ledger using this snippet of code: 

> <Code snippet>

Reviewer 2: This looks like a placeholder that never got filled out?

Author: Done

When you subscribe to the `ledger` stream, anytime there is a new validated ledger your code will be updated...

To get the application running at this stage of development, run the following command:

```console
npm run async-poll
```

The code has been refactored so that the main logic now resides in a main() function which delegates the window creation
to a helper function. We also put the functionality to do the ledger request into a separate function:

> {{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/2_async-poll.js", language="js", lines="8-22" }}
> 
> Our main logic is to continuously poll the XRPL using this function in an infinite loop:
> 
> {{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/2_async-poll.js", language="js", lines="57-71" }}

Reviewer 2: Syntax errors in these `include_code` macros (missing the closing parentheses) are causing the build to fail.

```suggestion
{{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/2_async-poll.js", language="js", lines="8-22") }}

Our main logic is to continuously poll the XRPL using this function in an infinite loop:

{{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/2_async-poll.js", language="js", lines="57-71") }}
```

Also, this is totally optional, but as a best practice I like to use `start_with=` and `end_before=` instead of `lines` because updates to the code sample file can throw off the line numbers, but `start_with`/`end_before` don't have to be updated unless the changes actually touch those sections.

Case in point, the example of `getValidatdLedgerData` is missing the closing `}` of the function on line 23.

Author: Whoops, I corrected that and forgot to commit the changes before vacation week. Done.

Author: Will include your starts_with and ends_before suggestion...

Author: Okay, "starts_with" and "before_end" messes up the JavaScript code, will stick to "lines" for now

### 1. Hello XRP Ledger

**Full code for this step:** 
[`1_hello.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/1_hello.js),
[`view/1_preload.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/view/1_preload.js),
[`view/1_hello.html`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/view/1_hello.html),
[`view/1_renderer.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/view/1_renderer.js).

Our first step is to write a "Hello World" like application, that interacts on a very basic level with the XRP Ledger 
and displays some high-level information about the current ledger state on the screen. Nothing too fancy so far, as we 
will take care of styling and GUI related coding in a later step:

![Screenshot: Step 1, hello world equivalent](img/javascript-wallet-1.png)

First, we will create an entrypoint for our application, for this we create the file `1_hello.js` with the following content:

`1_hello.js`
{{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/1_hello.js", language="js") }}

> The main parts are two functions, one that creates the application window and one that executes  a so called [ledger request](https://xrpl.org/ledger.html#ledger). The result of the ledger request is then distributed by broadcasting an event with the result as the payload. The event will then get picked up by the frontend which uses the payload to display the index of the last closed / settled ledger on the XRPL.

Reviewer 2: This paragraph could be a lot more concise:

```suggestion
This code has two parts: one that creates the application window and one that calls the XRP Ledger API's [ledger method](ledger.html). The code then broadcasts an event with the API response as the payload. The frontend picks up this event and uses the payload to display the index of most recently validated ledger.
```

(Also, as a general rule, use relative links when linking to other pages within xrpl.org, and don't include the anchor if you're just linking to the top of the page. Thus, `ledger.html` not `https://xrpl.org/ledger.html#ledger`.)

To display our results to the user, we need to create the view components that we specified in the `createWindow()` function. For this, we will create a `view` folder and add the following files there:

<!-- MULTICODE_BLOCK_START -->

> *Preloader*

Reviewer 2: I suggest naming the tabs with the filenames so the user doesn't have to mentally map which contents go to which. The paragraph below can still explain which file has which role, but it's a little less to keep track of this way.

```suggestion
*view/1_preload.js*
```

{{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/view/1_preload.js", language="js") }}

*Template*

> `view/1_hello.html`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*view/1_hello.html*
```

{{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/view/1_hello.html", language="html") }}

*Renderer*

> `view/1_renderer.js`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*view/1_renderer.js*
```

{{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/view/1_renderer.js", language="js") }}

<!-- MULTICODE_BLOCK_END-->

> The template part of the view is defined in `view/1_hello.html`, the wiring of our main application is done in `view/1_preload.js`. The scripts to be used by our view can be found in `view/_1_renderer.js`, we could as well have them put in the template file, but that would make the template unreadable at some point.

Reviewer 2: - Typo, extra `_` in the renderer filename.
- You should describe the files in the same order the tabs above present them.
- I suggest putting these in active voice and avoiding "we" and "our" where possible.

```suggestion
The file `view/1_preload.js` does the main wiring of the application. The file `view/1_hello.html` defines the template part of the view. The file `view/1_renderer.js` contains scripts used in the template; you could also have put these in the HTML file, but it's a good practice to separate them so the code is more readable.
```

```console
npm run hello
```

### 2.A. Show Ledger Updates by using WebSocket subscriptions

**Full code for this step:** 
[`2_async-subscribe.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/2_async-subscribe.js),
[`view/2_preload.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/view/2_preload.js),
[`view/2_async.html`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/view/2_async.html),
[`view/2_renderer.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/view/2_renderer.js).

Our "Hello Ledger" application from Step 1. so far only shows the latest validated ledger sequence at the time when we opened it. So let's take things up a notch and add some dashboard like functionality where our wallet app will keep in sync with the ledger and display the latest specs and stats like a clock that is keeping track on time:

![Screenshot: Step 2, show ledger updates](img/javascript-wallet-2.png)

> The code has been refactored so that the main logic now resides in a main() function. This allows us to handle the application ready event by using an one-liner at the end of the code. We will do such refactorings regularly along our journey in order to keep the code well managed and readable.

Reviewer 2: It would help to have this paragraph provide context of which file the following code sample goes in / is from. In general, it's a little hard to follow the tutorial just by reading along this way because it's not obvious what stuff stays the same vs. changes from the previous step. Ideally, the user could run the code just by reading along and copy-pasting the code blocks in the tutorial.

Author: Done

{{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/2_async-subscribe.js", language="js", lines="33-53") }}

In JavaScript, our client is connecting to the XRPL via [WebSockets](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WebSocket). Our client has a permanent bidirectional connection to the XRPL, which allows us to subscribe to events that the server sends out. This saves resources on the server, which now only sends out data we explicitly asked for when a change happens, as well as the client which does not have to sort through incoming data for relevant changes. This also reduces the complexity of the application and saves us a couple of lines of code. The subscription is happening here: 

> {{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/js/2_async-subscribe.js", language="js", lines="42-45") }}

Reviewer 2: It's a _little_ tricky for people skimming to have a code block that contains a subset of the previous code block. Like, if the reader is paying close attention they'll be fine but if they're even a bit distracted it can come across as a separate piece of code you need to also copy somewhere.

Author: Done

> When we [subscribe method](https://xrpl.org/subscribe.html) to the `ledger` stream, anytime there is a new validated ledger our code will be updated. The routing of the ´ledgerClosed´ event from the XRPL to the internal event `update-ledger-data`is happening here: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When we [subscribe](subscribe.html) to the `ledger` stream, our code gets a ´ledgerClosed´ event whenever there is a new validated ledger. The following code passes these events to the view as `update-ledger-data` events: 
```
